Unix Rz and sz support XMODEM, YMODEM, and ZMODEM transfers via
the dial-in controlling TTY (or PTY) port.  Also included is the
"undos" program which converts between Unix, MSDOS, CP/M, and
Macintosh text file end of line conventions.

The contents of this archive can be uploaded to a remote Unix or
Xenix system by ZCOMM or Professional-YAM using the supplied
zupl.t script.  Connect to your Unix/Xenix system, select an
empty directory, and then give the YAM/ZCOMM command: "source
zupl.t".  This will upload minirb.c, compile it, and then use
minirb to bootstrap upload the rz/sz files.

Once these files are on your Unix system, you can type "make".
The Makefile will list the various systems it knows how to
compile the programs for, and the command to do so (e.g.,
"make bsd").

The Makefile is self explanatory; just say "make".

Unregistered users can obtain support on a consulting basis.
Please call 503-614-0430 to arrange consulting support.

Registered users can obtain free support for problems not
involving terminal servers or third party software using email
or the regular Omen Technology phone number.

Rz and sz work best with comm programs that properly support
ZMODEM command and file AutoDownload (Pro-YAM and ZCOMM).

The "GSZ" shareware program allows ZMODEM file transfers with
DOS comm programs.  GSZ provides a "mini term function" that
supports ZMODEM AutoDownload.  GSZ (part of GSZ.ZIP) and ZCOMM
(ZCOMMEXE.ZIP, ZCOMMDOC.ZIP, ZCOMMHLP.ZIP) are available on
TeleGodzilla and other fine bulletin boards.

This software may be freely used to support file transfer
operations to or from duly licensed Omen Technology products.
This includes DSZ, GSZ, ZCOMM, Professional-YAM and PowerCom.
Institutions desiring to use rz/sz this way should add the
following to the sz compile line: -DCOMPL
Programs based on stolen or public domain ZMODEM materials are
not included.  Use with other commercial or shareware programs
(Crosstalk, Procomm, etc.) REQUIRES REGISTRATION.

Rz ans Sz are Copyrighted shareware programs.  Commercial Use of
these programs is subject to licensing conditions detailed in
the sz.c source code.  "Commercial Use" includes use of this
program to transfer files to/from any commercial or shareware
program not published by Omen Technology INC.  Please print the
"mailer.rz" file, fill out the form and return same with your
registration.

1.xx and 2.xx versions of rz and sz (April 1988) are Public Domain,
but lack recent enhancements and bug fixes.

The Man pages are formatted for those without Unix nroff.  For
best results, use less(1) (available on comp.sources.misc) as
your manual page reader.  The troff sources for the rz/sz man pages
are included with copies of Unix Professional-YAM, and are provided
to registered sites as described in the mailer.rz file.

Please check our web page www.omen.com for the latest information.

FTP access is now available at ftp.cs.pdx.edu pub/zmodem
directory.  This account has the latest and greatest selection
of OMEN files available for FTP.  The files in this direcotryy
are uploaded with ZMODEM directly from the Omen home system,
preserving modification dates and file contents.

Apr 30 1997: Rz handling of -N fixed.  Sz buffering fixed
to prevent spurious Bad Seek errors.

Aug 2 1996: The paranoid can now disable command uploads: see rz.doc

Mar 19 1996: Rz can now write its output to standard output
(see rz.doc).

Jan 28 1995: Sz now accepts standard input: "ls -l | sz -"
See sz.doc.  Sz is now compiled with buffering to support
input from sources that do not allow seeks (pipes, etc.).
<<When sendng from a pipe>> the ZMODEM window size is set to
guarantee error recovery will fit within the buffer.  In
some applications it may be desireable to increase the
buffer size in the sz.c source code.

June 22 1994: sz -e now escapes the all ones character (0xFF).
This is useful in some terminal server applications.
Sz now understands receiver specified control character
prefixing (ZCOMM/Professional-YAM zmresc string parameter).

Apr 23 1994: Added -DOLD compiler flag for antique SYSV
compilers without a standard /usr/include/stdlib.h header file.
This causes rbsb.c to define char *getenv() etc. instead of
getting these definitons from stdlib.h.  You may have to fiddle
with the declarations in rbsb.c #ifdef OLD to get a clean compile.

Registration and support has been clarified and simplified
(see mailer.rz).

Feb 18 94: A bug in sz that caused constipation at the end of a
file under certain options was corrected.

Jan 27 1994: Minor bugfixes and improvements, documentation
improved.

May 16 1993: More bugfixes, POSIX support.  Tested on SCO Unix,
BSDI 1.0, and SunOS 4.1.2.  Code simplified to avoid certain
compiler brain damage.  (Some complaints about redefinitons
with some POSIX compiles.) (Void and Unsigned Long are required.)

Jan 2 1992: Documentation on the sz -T command has been
improved.  Please use this command and Professional-YAM to
diagnose file transfer problems before calling for support.


VMS systems are now supported with native VMS versions in
RZSZ.TLB.  The rz and sz in RZSZ.TLB support wild cards and
VMS record types.

New for 1989: ZMODEM compression and other compatible
extensions have been added to the rz and sz programs.
Please read the comments in the rz.c and sz.c source code
for licensing information.


In order for us to handle problem reports, we must have the
exact error messages displayed by Professional-YAM.  If
transfers do not work at all, we must have complete results of
the sz -T test procedure!  If you are not using an Omen
Technology product to talk to rz/sz and have not registered
rz/sz, contact the author of the communications program you have
purchased for support.  Some heavily marketed programs do not
properly support the XMODEM, YMODEM, and/orZMODEM protocols.

Chuck Forsberg WA7KGX     caf@omen.COM     http://www.omen.com
   Omen Technology Inc      "The High Reliability Software"
Author of YMODEM, ZMODEM, Professional-YAM, ZCOMM, GSZ and DSZ
TeleGodzilla BBS: 503-617-1698  FTP: ftp.cs.pdx.edu pub/zmodem
POB 4681 Portland OR 97208     503-614-0430   FAX:503-629-0665
